# osupdate README
Version 1.0 
October 11, 2008

Copyright (c) 2008 Eric Steil III

## Description

osupdate is a simple tool that kicks off the Apple TV upgrade process without
a download or signature verification.

You can upgrade or downgrade at will with this tool.

This tool still requires that you have shell access to the Apple TV to use.

The recovery partition is not modified at all.  The process used is the **same**
process used during normal Apple TV updates.

Updates for the firmware are requested as well, and will not affect anything
if those updates are not present.  This part is untested, however.

## Usage

To begin, place the OS or any other updates into `/Users/frontrow/Updates` on
the Apple TV.  For the most part, the file names do not matter except for the
extension.

Note: The updates directory is removed on every boot, so don't keep your only
copy of any files there!

Next, copy the `osupdate` binary to the Apple TV.  Make sure it is executable
(`chmod +x osupdate` if necessary) and then execute it as root:

`sudo ./osupdate`

It will print a few lines of text, and your Apple TV should automatically
reboot.  If it says `Requested update: 0`, then there were no updates found.
Check the file names if this happens.

## Notes

The OS update must have the extension `.dmg`, in lowercase.

The firmware updates are all two files, an updater and the firmware itself.
The updater must be named exactly as specified, and the extension of the
firmware must match.

The IR updater is `IRReceiverUpdaterTool2`, and an `.irrxfw` file.

The EFI updater is `AppleCapsule.efi`, and a `.scap` file.

The HDMI updater is `hdmiutil`, and a `.sihex` file.

## Building

This should build with any reasonably modern version of Xcode with the 10.4
SDK installed.  There are no special requirements, just run `make`.

## License

Copyright (C) 2008 Eric Steil III.

osupdate is licensed under GPL 3.  The full license can be found in LICENSE.txt.
 
  This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
  it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
  the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
  (at your option) any later version.

  This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
  but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
  MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
  GNU General Public License for more details.

  You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
  along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

## Notice

This program is provided at your own risk.  The author claims no responsibility
for any damage or other outcome that may occur from use of this software.

The author is not affiliated with Apple, Inc.
